george osborne had portrayed britain as ` comeback country ' with better times ahead in his sixth budget .
chancellor has said that families will be # 900 better off this year , compared to when coalition started in 2010 .
proposed tax cuts will be paid for in part by # 5billion double strike on banks , including rise in bank levy .
he also pledged that 95 % will be freed from paying tax on their life saving , by abolishing tax on first # 1,000 .
government will add # 50 to every # 200 saved in new first-time buyer isa to help people build up a deposit for a home .
there will be 1p off beer and an extension on longest freeze in fuel duty - the longest run for more than 20 years .
george osborne said : ` the sun is starting to shine -- we are fixing the roof . ` we took difficult decisions in the teeth of opposition and it worked . britain is walking tall again '
labour leader ed miliband claimed chancellor had ` failed working families ' and said : ` this is a budget that people wo n't believe from a government that is not on their side '
a new ` help-to-buy isa ' for first-time homebuyers with the government adding # 50 to every # 200 saved for a deposit ; .
a rise in the income tax allowance to # 10,800 next year and to # 11,000 by 2017 , meaning 5.4 million people will have been taken out of tax ; .
relief for those paying the 40p higher rate with the first above-inflation rise in the threshold in seven years ; .
drinkers being given 1p off beer and drivers being granted an extension of the longest freeze in fuel duty for over 20 years . mr osborne said the tories had cut # 10 off a tank of fuel ; .
an expected change in the law to give five million pensioners the right to cash in their annuities without punitive charges ; .
an increase in a new transferable tax allowance for married couples ; .
a hike in the annual isa savings limit to # 15,240 and rights to move money in and out without penalty ; .
annual paper tax returns to be replaced by digital accounts ; .
a review of the business rate system blamed for damaging high streets ; .
a # 1.25 billion boost for mental health services on the nhs .