five day celebration for the last english king to fall in battle begins today .
final journey begins at bosworth field and ends at leicester cathedral .
richard will be buried on thursday after he 's attended by living relatives .
dna analysis confirmed remains found in car park in 2012 were richard 's .
richard iii 's coffin leaves leicester university for bosworth field in a black jaguar hearse , escorted by four police outriders and limousines , to start the preliminary leg of its journey . the oak coffin was made by michael ibsen , richard 's nephew 17 times removed , whose family 's dna was used to identify the king 's skeleton .
the bones have been packed in wool and richard 's hands and feet have been placed in linen bags , embroidered with roses by children at leicester 's richard iii primary school . with the king is a wooden rosary , emblazoned with an enamelled white rose . the skeleton is covered by a raw linen cloth , embroidered with york roses , by elizabeth noakes , of the richard iii society .
the cortege officially departs fen lane farm . close to bosworth , this is where the battle was actually fought on august 22 , 1485 . here richard lost his crown and his life , when his army of 8,000 men was beaten by the lancastrians , led by henry tudor . archaeologists found more than 20 medieval cannon balls on the site .
the cortege will be joined by two knightly figures on horseback in 15th century armour . they include dr tobias capwell , curator of arms and armour at the wallace collection .
richard 's body arrives at st james ' church at dadlington for prayers . here many of the dead of bosworth are buried . henry vii paid for a chancery in the church .
following the cortege is the 19th earl of derby , descendant of lord stanley , richard 's lord high constable of england . he swung the battle by changing sides to support henry , with his 3,000 men . richard miscalculated stanley 's loyalty -- surprising since stanley was married to henry tudor 's mother . ` stanley had by far the largest army on the field , ' said lord derby . ` but he was in a very difficult position . the pillow talk was all about helping henry . richard took stanley 's eldest son hostage and threatened to kill him . but stanley said , `` sire , i have other sons . '' luckily , richard never got the chance to behead him . '
after the battle , stanley retrieved richard iii 's crown from a hedge and crowned henry vii on the battlefield . henry rewarded him by making him earl of derby , calling him ` right dearly beloved father ' .
lord derby is one of the ten ` bosworth peers ' , whose ancestors fought at the battle , who will follow the coffin later today .
the cortege stops at st james ' church , sutton cheney , where richard heard his last mass before battle . while his army camped the night before the battle on ambien hill , above fenland field , the king is said to have spent his last night on earth at sutton cheney manor , which no longer exists .
among the vips will be dominic smee , of channel 4 's documentary richard iii : the new evidence . by an enormous coincidence , smee also suffers from scoliosis , the curvature of the spine that led shakespeare to call richard ` a poisonous , bunch-backed toad ' .
dominic learned to ride and fight in a specially made suit of armour and proved richard could have been the great warrior of repute and that his scoliosis was hardly apparent when clothed .
richard arrives at the bosworth battlefield heritage centre where the coffin will be transferred to a wheeled bier . covered with richard 's royal standard , escorted by the two knightly riders , it will be drawn to the top of ambien hill for a service of commemoration .
as well as invited vips , more than 2,000 people have bought tickets for the event . battlefield re-enactment society members will have held a dawn vigil in medieval dress . there will be exhibitions of medieval warfare , falconry , cooking and other aspects of medieval life . there will be a minute 's silence , then a 21-gun salute from eight medieval cannons . ` it 's about reconciliation for the dead of both sides , ' said the heritage centre 's richard knox . ` and to allow richard to return from the battlefield with the dignity and honour that he was denied in 1485 . '
the battlefield beacon will be lit -- and it will burn until richard is buried .
the coffin is transferred back to his hearse . the knightly outriders salute their king , as the motorised procession sets off for leicester . the procession follows the route richard took in 1485 , through market bosworth , including crossing into leicester over bow bridge -- over which richard led his troops to battle . legend says his spur struck the bridge , and an old crone prophesied his head would hit the same stone .
on his return , richard was slung naked over a horse , his hands tied together . legend says that his broken skull did hit the same stone on the bridge . trauma to his skeleton 's pelvic bone showed that someone stabbed him in the bottom .
richard 's procession arrives back in leicester , over bow bridge , across which he led his troops 530 years ago . the coffin will be transported into the medieval st nicholas church , where prayers will be said .
the coffin will then be transferred to a gun carriage drawn by four black horses and driven by a driver in traditional dress .
accompanying them will be jenny gilbert , of undertakers adkinsons . ` we 're not having plumes or drapes , ' says jenny . ` it 's going to be simple . people said , `` it 's not going to look like the krays , is it ? '' ' richard 's cortege will then make its way to leicester cathedral .
the remains of england 's last plantagenet king will arrive at leicester cathedral . his cortege , flanked by the two knights in armour , will be escorted into the cathedral by the ` bosworth peers ' .
the white rose of york peers are the 18th of norfolk , back from a family skiing holiday for the occasion ; the 6th baron grey of codnor ; the duke of rutland ; the 19th viscount hereford ; and the hon james stourton , representing his brother , the 27th baron mowbray .
the lancastrian red rose peers are the earl of derby ; the 6th baron raglan ; 29th baron herbert ; 11th earl de la warr ; and representatives of the 18th earl of devon and 8th baroness bray . ` we 've got red rose and white rose , for lancaster and york , because this service is about reconciliation , ' said the dean , the very reverend david monteith .
the coffin will be borne by members of the armed forces , including two senior ncos from the 1st regiment prince of wales , 1st battalion regiment of fusiliers , and royal warrant officer first class from the scots guards .
originally the bosworth peers were going to carry the coffin -- ` but it 's lead-lined , so we thought it was too heavy , ' said a cathedral spokesman . the sermon will be given by cardinal vincent nichols , archbishop of westminster , as richard was a catholic .
more than 14,000 people from all over the world applied for the ticket ballot for the service . the 600-strong congregation is split between invited guests and the ballot winners . those attending will include wendy daldig , richard 's australian niece 17 times removed . her dna , along with michael ibsen 's , was used to identify the king .
richard 's remains in his coffin will lie in repose in the cathedral from today until thursday so that members of the public may pay their respects .
on thursday at 11am , england 's last plantagenet king will be reburied in a service conducted by the archbishop of canterbury .
the queen will be represented by the countess of wessex . the duke and duchess of gloucester will also be present , as will the ` bosworth peers ' , the original ten now swollen by other plantagenet courtier families , including the duke of st albans and lord scrope . many others whose ancestors fought at bosworth have been invited too after they were tracked down by leicester university 's professor kevin schurer . it is hoped that actor benedict cumberbatch , who is richard 's nephew 17 times removed and who will be playing the king in the bbc 's forthcoming series of the hollow crown , will be at the service .
richard will then be laid in a specially dug crypt in the centre of the cathedral , behind the altar . overnight , his tomb , designed by the architects van heinigen and harward , will be constructed .
the tomb is made of slick modern swaledale fossil stone block , deeply incised with a simple cross slashed into the stone . on top of a slab of black polished granite , carved with richard 's boar badge , his coat of arms , is his motto ` loyaulte me lie ' -- loyalty binds me . white roses of york have been set into the floor tiles around the tomb .