real madrid draw atletico madrid in uefa champions league last eight .
the two sides met in last season 's final , with real coming out on top .
barcelona face paris saint-germain , while bayern munich take on porto .
arsenal 's conquerors , monaco , will meet serie a champions juventus .
quarter-final ties to take place on april 14 , 15 , 21 and 22 .
click here to see how it all unfolded .
these sides have met twice before in the champions league quarter-final stage . the french side progressed 3-2 on aggregate in 1995 , while barcelona went through on away goals in 2013 -lrb- 3-3 on agg -rrb- .
barcelona have never won in three away trips to face psg -lrb- l2 d1 -rrb- , including a 3-2 defeat in this year ' group stage .
psg have lost one and drawn two of their three visits to the nou camp to face barca , including a 3-1 defeat in this year 's group stage .
both teams have scored in six of the seven previous meetings between the sides in european competition . the only game where one team failed to score was in the 1997 cup winner 's cup final , with barcelona winning 1-0 .
lionel messi has scored three goals in four champions league games against the french side , while neymar also scored in both group stage games against them this season .
barca have lost just one of their last 11 games against french opposition , though this was against psg this season -lrb- w6 d4 -rrb- .
atletico madrid and real madrid have already met six times this season with atleti remaining unbeaten , winning four -lrb- including both league clashes -rrb- and drawing two .
atletico madrid have scored exactly once in all four previous european meetings with city rivals real , winning just once and losing three .
including this season , there has been at least one spanish team in the champions league quarter-final for the last 10 campaigns .
for only the third time in european cup history , a quarter-final tie will feature two spanish sides ; however it is the second season in a row that this has happened -lrb- real madrid v sevilla in 1958 and atletico v barcelona in 2014 -rrb- .
bayern only lost 1 of 22 competitive matches versus portuguese teams -lrb- 13 w , 8 d -rrb- : the european cup final 1987 : 1-2 versus porto .
bayern won the last knockout tie against a portuguese team 12-1 : 5-0 a and 7-1 h against sporting in the last 16 of the cl 2008/09 .
porto 's one previous knockout european cup victory over a german side came in the 1987 final ; they have been eliminated from three knockout ties since , two against bayern and one against schalke .
bayern munich have kept seven clean sheets in their last nine against portuguese sides , conceding just twice in total .
these two sides have only ever met before in the 97/98 champions league , when juventus won 4-1 at home and lost 2-3 in monte carlo on their way to the final where they lost 1-0 to real madrid .
in their 24 european meetings with french teams -lrb- including intertoto -rrb- , the old lady have lost just five times , winning 14 and drawing five .
however in the champions league only , juve has won just two of their six games against french sides -lrb- one win v monaco in 1998 and a victory against nantes in 1996 -rrb- .
in their 11 european meetings with italian sides , monaco have won just three times -lrb- d2 l6 -rrb- , although two of those victories have come in their last three clashes with serie a sides .